README.md, before:

<h1 align="center"> 🔑 Cryptography (RSA)</h1>

This project is the implementation of the RSA Algorithm.

<h5>Built with: </h5>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/C%2B%2B-00599C?style=for-the-badge&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white">

# About

- ### Prime Numbers

  The algorithm begins with generating a private key and a public key. For this to happen, it requires two <b>Prime Numbers</b>.

  1. It generates two random numbers between 4-5 digits
  2. It looks for the closest prime numbers from the random numbers
  3. A Miller-Rabin primality test is performed on the given number. The test works well for large prime numbers compared to the traditional approach and is not compute intensive.

  <b>Note:</b> _Miller-Rabin primality is a probabilistic test that tells whether a number is likely prime. This test is not deterministic and there couble be a very small probability of error._

- ### Public and Private keys

  Using the prime numbers, the program then generates a modulus <b>N</b> and the Euler's Totient. The larger the prime numbers, the harder they are to crack.

  1. It then finds and selects a co-prime number using GCD ( greatest common divisor )
  2. The encryption key E has the following properties

     - _1 < E < EULER_TOTIENT_
     - Co-prime with EULER_TOTIENT and N

  3. The decryption key D is found using the Extended Euclidean Algorithm.

  4. These keys are then stored into the files <b> public_key.rsa </b> and <b> private_key.rsa </b>

- ### Encryption 🔐

  Given the message file and the public key file:

  1. The program parses and fetches E and N from the public key file
  2. Converts each character in the message to an encrypted character using modular exponentiation
  3. The encrypted text is written into a file <b>encrypted.txt</b>

Commit message:

decryption and usage description added

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center"> 🔑 Cryptography (RSA)</h1>

This project is the implementation of the RSA Algorithm.

<h5>Built with: </h5>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/C%2B%2B-00599C?style=for-the-badge&logo=c%2B%2B&logoColor=white">

# About

- ### Prime Numbers

  The algorithm begins with generating a private key and a public key. For this to happen, it requires two <b>Prime Numbers</b>.

  1. It generates two random numbers between 4-5 digits
  2. It looks for the closest prime numbers from the random numbers
  3. A Miller-Rabin primality test is performed on the given number. The test works well for large prime numbers compared to the traditional approach and is not compute intensive.

  <b>Note:</b> _Miller-Rabin primality is a probabilistic test that tells whether a number is likely prime. This test is not deterministic and there couble be a very small probability of error._

- ### Public and Private keys

  Using the prime numbers, the program then generates a modulus <b>N</b> and the Euler's Totient. The larger the prime numbers, the harder they are to crack.

  1. It then finds and selects a co-prime number using GCD ( greatest common divisor )
  2. The encryption key E has the following properties

     - _1 < E < EULER_TOTIENT_
     - Co-prime with EULER_TOTIENT and N

  3. The decryption key D is found using the Extended Euclidean Algorithm.

  4. These keys are then stored into the files <b> public_key.rsa </b> and <b> private_key.rsa </b>

- ### Encryption 🔐

  Given the message file and the public key file:

  1. The program parses and fetches E and N from the public key file
  2. Converts each character in the message to an encrypted character using modular exponentiation
  3. The encrypted text is written into a file <b>encrypted_file.txt</b>

- ### Decryption 🔓

  Given the encrypted file and the private key file:

  1. The program parses and fetches D and N from the public key file
  2. Converts each character in the message to an decrypted character using modular exponentiation
  3. The decrypted text is printed on to the console

# Usage

- Generate keys by running <b>generate_keys.cpp </b>

- Compile <b>encrypt.cpp<b> then run the following:
  ```sh
  ./"encrypt" -m <path to your message file> -e <path to public_key.rsa>
  ```
- Compile <b>decrypt.cpp<b> then run the following:
  ```sh
  ./"decrypt" -ef <path to your encrypted file> -e <path to private_key.rsa>
  ```
